Update 'Why?' section of index (#15)
git-bom/site: content/_index.md

{{< /home/section >}}

{{< home/section title="Why?" >}}
By constructing a complete, concise, and verifiable [artifact tree](/glossary/artifact_tree) for every [software artifact](/glossary/artifact), [GitBOM](/glossary/gitbom) enables:
- Run-time detection of potential vulnerabilities, regardless of the depth in a dependency tree from which that vulnerability originated

> - Identifying license obligations across both open source and commercial software

Reviewer: I deleted this section in my previous PRs intentionally.

Reviewer: gitbom doesn't aid license identification workflows beyond the incidental ability to correlate LICENSE.txt file hashes throughout a tree -- and that is itself potentially misleading. I would prefer not to invite this debate on the front page.

Author: Agreed, not looking to create controversy on the front page, happy to delete.

> - More reliable attestation

Reviewer: gitbom does not perform, nor provide any metadata salient to, remote attestation.

again, I deleted this line to avoid inviting debate about what we mean by "attestation" here -- since i do not believe this means the same thing as the definition proposed within the IETF RATS WG.

Author: Same comment as above, will delete.

- Post-exploit forensics

By creating a unique, immutable, verifiable identifier (the [GitBOM ID](/glossary/gitbom/#gitbom-identifier)) for every [software artifact](/glossary/artifact), [GitBOM](/glossary/gitbom):

> - enables any [software artifact](/glossary/artifact) to be definitively linked to any metadata ([SBOM](/glossary/sbom), license, support info, security advisories, etc.)

Reviewer: Not really? The SBOM can reference a GitBOM, but not the other way around -- GitBOM does not "link to" the metadata about the software package.

I often speak about how the current EO Min Req's for software identification are insufficient for certain use cases, but I wouldn't go so far as to say this "definitively links to metadata".

Author: Yes, the order in which this is stated matters. To be more precise, this is what was intended:
```suggestion
- enables any metadata ([SBOM](/glossary/sbom), license, support info, security advisories, etc.) to be linked to a specific set of corresponding [software artifacts](/glossary/artifact)
```

Author: Does this address your concern?

Reviewer: Yep, that parses more clearly to me. Thanks!

> - improves component naming challenges impacting [SBOM](/glossary/sbom) adoption

Reviewer: Could you clarify this? I don't recall any discussion related to this when we wrote the white paper...

Author: Today two different tools will produce two different SBOMs for the same software artifact. These two SBOMs may differ when the tools used to generate them use different sources to identify/describe the same component. E.g. if one SBOM generationi tool uses CPE (cpe:2.3:a:djangoproject:django:1.11.1:*:*:*:*:*:*:*) and another uses PURL (pkg:pypi/django@1.11.1), then these two SBOMs might diverge when they define the component supplier: it could be djangoproject or pypi. In another instance a vendor might choose to use their product's current marketing name for the component name, whereas others might use the vendor's product name listed in a CPE or SWID tag. Regardless of which name is used, by listing the GitBOM ID for the component in both SBOMs one can quickly understand that while the component may be shipped via multiple suppliers or be called by different names, they do describe the same artifact.

Author: LMK if this clarifies, you have questions, or suggestions to change this content. Would it help for me to create a PR to get this more detailed explanation into the white paper?

Reviewer: Ooh. That's a very good nuance which wasn't apparent to me from the PR, and I agree with it and see the value in it. Can we move that explanation to a glossary page?

For those who may read this and wonder "_what naming challenges?_", I suggest a slight rewording. Perhaps something like:
> - provides a precise software identifier which can be used in SBOMs in situations where naming schemes may be ambiguous

Reviewer 2: @AevaOnline Perhaps take your wording and link to [artifact identifier](https://github.com/git-bom/site/blob/52adb741ad44fb05a455e59444e4fe9bf140133c/content/glossary/artifact.md?plain=1#L44-L48)?

> * provides a precise artifact identifier which can be used in SBOMs in situations where naming schemes may be ambiguous

Author: @AevaOnline @edwarnicke I believe I've taken all suggestions into account in the latest commit.

Author: Opened new Issue #18 and added new PR #19 to move the explanation to a glossary page.
